All right. Good afternoon, everybody. Thanks for coming to our session.
Yeah, I don't know. It's on?
All right. Okay, so mine, I tried to speak loud so that
the people even in the rows in the back can understand me.
My name is Henrik. That's my colleague, Joseph.
Both of us are publishing and working on open source dependency management,
security topics for a couple of years already.
So yeah, recently we started looking into S-bombs
more maybe compliance and topics that we are not so familiar with.
So we're looking forward to your questions.
All right. So the agenda of our session will be like follows.
I think the first session agenda item can be very quick,
seeing that you already spent like four hours on that topic.
We will then present a small case study where we basically tried to,
or where we ran different S-bomb generators at different points in time
on an open source solution in order to see whether those tools agree
on the S-bombs generated, whether the results produced are comparable,
whether the results change over time and to also pinpoint a couple of
what we believe are deficiencies.
And then Joseph will explain why it is beneficial and helpful to go from
the granularity of entire components to the code level to look at
functions and methods and call graphs.
All right. So that is a software bill of material in the Cyclone DX format,
which is one of the, let's say, prominent standards in this space.
Cyclone DX has a little bit of a security background.
That's why we kind of choose this.
It seemed more natural to our previous works.
At the very top is kind of the S-bomb format and version.
Here in the middle, you have the software product for which the S-bomb is generated.
Here you have the S-bomb generator tool.
We have anonymized those solutions.
We didn't think it is necessary to point out problems in individual open-source solutions,
but we wanted to more raise awareness for the general problem of comparability and so forth.
And then at the bottom here, you have an array of components that the S-bomb generator
found in the software analyzed.
And of course, there will be many.
And I highlighted a couple of fields that we will be looking at in much more detail.
So there is the name, there is a CPE, there is a PERL, a package URL, or a group and a
version.
So these are all different fields belonging to naming schemes in order to describe or
identify the component that was found.
And then they have properties that can be all kind of proprietary properties the S-bomb
generator decided to include.
Why do we need S-bombs?
I think in the interest of time, I just skip this altogether and go to the case study right
away.
The idea of this, the motivation for this came basically by reading through a couple
of documents.
The first, and I've cited them here at the bottom, is a research paper that was done
recently.
It is, I think, a couple of interviews and surveys.
And there were some statements from the survey participants who said that an S-bomb is not
something that is static, that you create at a given point in time and then you assume
it to be stable.
But that is something that is evolving throughout the software development life cycle.
And then the corresponding information is also provided in this guidance from the NTIA,
the minimum elements for a software bill of materials.
On pages six to seven they say you can generate an S-bomb at different points on the sources,
after the build, maybe at the Docker image.
But the S-bomb should actually contain this information when it has been created.
That would be important for the consumer.
So we looked at different S-bomb generators.
And then of course, but in order to do a proper comparison, we need to kind of a software
to be analyzed.
And so I sample software.
We have chosen Eclipse Daddy, which is a solution, a security solution that I've been contributing
to over many years.
The one that I know very well because I thought that would be helpful to understand the quality
of what is generated.
In particular, we look at one of the modules of that solution.
It's a Spring Boot REST service that is developed with Java and Maven.
It will be deployed using a Docker image that is downloadable from Docker Hub.
And the ground truth, which is the information that we will take later on to say whether
the S-bomb generators perform good or bad, is what you see here.
So there are 114 compile time dependencies.
So they are required for compiling the Java sources to runtime dependencies.
They should be present where the production software runs.
There are 41 test dependencies, JUnit, and other stuff.
Good.
Before showing the results, or walking through the results, a little bit of background, because
that is very important.
How do we name those components?
It is important to understand there are context specific component identifiers.
For example, Maven.
Maven coordinates.
This is what is used by the Java developers.
It is consisting of a group identifier, artifact identifier, and a version.
This is typically the GAF of the coordinates of a Maven artifact you would download from
Maven Central.
There are some optional identifier elements.
An example here is O
is affecting a component, CPE 2.3, which is the version of the CPE naming scheme.
The vendor is DOM4J project.
It is not exactly the same name before, a pity.
DOM4J is the product name.
And then, besides, there are universal component identifiers.
One that got a lot of traction in recent years is the Perl package URL.
It has seven elements that I put here.
And using S-bombs in order to use it for understanding whether there are known vulnerabilities, what
is the quality of the projects used, and so forth, requires to map all those names, names
that are given by people somehow.
And that this can go wrong becomes evident by picking one example that I generated later
on.
So this is a copy paste from one of the S-bombs, the cyclone DX S-bombs.
And you see here that the Perl here, this universal component identifier that was put
in by the S-bomb generator, says it's DOM4J.
To bad it doesn't map to all DOM4J, which is the identifier made in central.
So if you want to look up a new version of that component, well, bad luck, you don't
have the right identifier.
If you want to compare this CPE into search for known vulnerabilities, well, it's not
the same identifier.
They found DOM4J, but it's DOM4J project to that.
So the approach we have taken is we selected three open source S-bomb generators, A and
B, generic solutions.
You can basically throw anything at them, a directory, an image, a tarball, whatever.
And then C is a Maven plugin that hooks into Maven's build process.
And we ran those three tools at three different points in time.
After cloning the open source project, after git clone, after creating the Maven package,
after running Maven package to create the self-contained Spring Boot application that
you can run, and after finally on the Docker image.
On the Docker image, we could just run A and B because C is dedicated to be integrated
into the Maven build tool.
And so we collected basically eight different S-bombs from those eight runs.
And the color coding will stay the same for the Venn diagrams I will be showing on the
next slides.
And then we did three things.
We computed precision and recall of those tools, which means we compared what they found
with the ground truth.
And so precision says basically how many false positives are there in.
False positives is the thing tells me there is a component which I know is not there,
not so useful.
We call this for measuring false negatives, which is the tool didn't generate a component
even though it is there.
Also not so helpful, especially for vulnerable dependencies.
And then with those S-bombs, so this is kind of the quality, the accuracy of the tools
judged independently against the ground truth.
And then we created a couple of Venn diagrams to see how much do they actually agree.
So how much, what is the overlap of S-bomb A and B and C in those different times?
And then we looked at some additional properties.
All right, so this is the first, let's say, result running the three tools right after
having cloned the open source project.
And let me start from the bottom of the slide with the tool C, which is easy, because that
is actually perfect.
That integrated in the Maven dependency lifecycle in this build tool.
Perfect precision, perfect recall, no false positives, no false negatives, right?
Very good.
And it has a couple of additional properties such as SHA-1, SHA-256, SIX, digest, license
information descriptions, a lot of useful stuff.
Now then let's look at tool A. You see the blue bubble is much smaller because it basically
failed identifying many, many, many components.
And the reason I think, I mean, I need to speculate a little bit how the internals work,
but the reason I guess is that it looked at the POM.xml, which is where the developers
declare dependencies, but it didn't resolve any dependencies.
So meaning it doesn't build a complete dependency tree.
So it lacked a lot of transitive dependencies on top of that.
For the direct ones that are in the POM, it didn't have any version information because
that was specified elsewhere.
So we have components like with this PERL org-spring framework boot, spring boot starter
without a version.
They included test dependencies, which was also interesting.
The other tools didn't include test dependencies.
But the funny thing is they included it, but if you looked at the S-bomb, you wouldn't
know that it's a test dependency.
You can't tell, is this really something only used for developing or is it really in
my production system?
Also not so helpful.
And they had a couple of CPE combinations supposedly for mapping known vulnerabilities.
I think I need to speed up a little bit, right?
Now this is this Venn diagram I was mentioning.
So here, some of the Venn diagram I didn't explain.
So in fact, this is the overlap of those PERLs.
So we looked at those PERLs and tried, do they match to each other?
And you see that to see even though they had all perfectly identified, tool B had a good
number, but they still don't overlap.
And this is because those PERLs contain additional elements, qualifiers, like the type, it's
a Java archive, or for operating system components, could be the target platform, which makes
they don't overlap.
Now if we only look at one of the naming elements, then the overlap is much bigger because the
fact that A is lacking versions, B has wrong version identifiers, and the fact that C adds
additional details, it all vanishes and looks like it's all converging.
But it is again important to understand the name alone is not so useful for looking up
vulnerabilities on new versions.
Good.
So let me hurry up a little bit.
This is the same thing run after Maven package.
Tool A improved.
They were finding more, but still the precision and recall are not as good as for the other
solutions.
The other two tools didn't change at all.
So for them it didn't make a difference that Maven package ran or not.
Here again is the difference in terms of PERLs, which is resulting in the lack of overlap.
Here this is the same component, tool A has it as DOM4J, DOM4J, tool B has it at ORG DOM4J,
DOM4J, and tool C has it at ORG DOM4J, DOM4J, and type equal to jar.
So they added this additional information which made that they don't overlap.
Good.
And then last, after running, now we ran it also on the Docker image, the first two tools.
And maybe one finding here is what we observed in terms of lack of overlap on Maven components
also happened for operating system components.
So here we have DBNO2, the package dash.
But again, one tool added a little bit of more information, the target architecture.
For the consumer of the bomb, who knows whether this is important information in terms of
security?
I don't know.
And then again, if you only look at the name, the overlap is much bigger.
But even though it looks like they only disagree on very few components, too bad for tool B,
I think, had a big miss.
It was lacking the complete Java runtime.
And those people being in security, they know how many security issues there are in the
Java runtime.
Good lessons learned.
The reasons for getting different S bombs is a big one.
Tools integrated into the dependency manager seem to work much better, at least on the
result of that small case study, versus generic tools that are supposed to judge the bill
of material from the outside.
They will need to apply some heuristics.
And they don't have the same level of detailed knowledge about the dependency graph.
Production versus test components are sometimes included, sometimes not.
There are different defaults.
And in the S bomb generated, you don't see the difference any longer.
And of course, there's also this difference depending on when you run it.
There will be different components included.
There is a standard format, but the tools include different fields.
Some include license and digests.
Others not.
And even if they all include a Perl, Perl itself is a complex naming scheme with seven elements.
And the tools decide differently on what to include in a Perl.
And other reasons that we didn't discuss here, it also depends on the time of the dependency
resolution, in case your version ranges.
Or if some tools also generate platform-specific S bombs.
So if you create an S bomb on a Mac and on a Windows machine, maybe with different hardware
architectures beneath, you would have different S bombs.
And I think I don't have so much time to look into this.
What I wanted to say, identifying vulnerabilities only on names is rather flawed because names
keep on changing.
Projects are renamed.
There are rebundles.
There are forks.
And so which is why we advocate for enriching such information with call graph information
and code-level information.
And with that, I hand over to Joseph.
Yeah, thank you, Andrew.
So this will be a bit short version.
We're running out of time here.
I guess I'll just hold it.
All right.
So why do we want to go for more like a call graph view?
So with the current S-bomb format, so in general with dependency trees, if you view from that
perspective, we typically have the application and the list of dependencies of how it is dependent,
right?
If you said try to think from a call graph perspective of looking into the source code,
you could have something like this instead.
So if you see, for example, like those small sort of like almost like LEGO pieces, if each
of them are function calls from like the application to the API, we can see, for example, at lib4
and if lib4 would have a vulnerability or some other type of problem, we see that there
are actually no function calls to it from the application down to lib4 via lib2.
So I mean, the interesting part here is that if you start looking from like a code perspective,
we can quickly see whether we can pinpoint or like see how we're utilizing source code.
And another interesting part is that when so I look for example into the Rust ecosystem,
so if you have a couple of dependencies, so, for example, map.lit here, if you run like
a grep over here, you can see that only like this one is let's say like, I mean, imported,
but we don't see any usage of it in the package.
So this is like a case where there's no code reuse.
And I was generally like interested to know like in the Rust ecosystem to see like how
we are like doing, like how many dependencies are we actually calling or not calling in
general.
And when I did the study and looked into like how many dependencies are declared and resolved
versus how many are actually being reused in the code, I found that for using only package
information, it would, for example, report around 17 dependencies.
Whereas in the case when you looked into the like through pull graph information, we found
that only six dependencies are used.
And that was quite interesting to know why there was such a big difference.
And the reason why there is such a big difference is that if you look into this example over
here, we see that main calls foo and then from app to lib1, foo calls bar.
And then further down, we see that from bar it calls to intern in lib2.
But then we see that there are actually no calls from lib2 to lib3.
And this shows that what is quite important to think about context in general, because
depending on how app is using its direct dependency, it also directly impacts what transitive dependencies
are also being called.
And the assumption that we usually have when we are building an S-form or we are looking
into a dependency tree is that we are assuming that all APIs of direct dependencies are being
utilized.
And then we are also assuming that all APIs of transitive dependencies are being used
as well.
So we need to also start thinking a bit about what kind of context is being used in general.
And so a little bit what would be the lessons here with trying to integrate something like
call graphs or other levels apart from just using package information is that if you start
having information around source code, we can directly try to pinpoint and understand,
for example, if there is a vulnerability in one function, we can see that, hey, okay,
is being either quite utilized in my source code or not utilized at all.
And another thing, so this is a problem that we also see as well, that we might declare
dependencies on 20 components where you get an S-form from, like, a vendor or someone
else.
They have five different components, but which one is the most critically used one in that
project?
That's also not very clear.
And if you know, for example, usage of APIs, you can kind of get an idea around that.
And this was also a little bit the second point that I was, like, highlighting on that
we need a few more layers of information that serve different uses of S-form.
For developers, if I have an access to S-form, I would rather not look into metadata information.
I want to look into cold traces and cold information in general.
Whereas for maybe security management people or other layers, they probably don't want
to look into the source code.
They rather want to look to get an overview of seeing which packages are being used rather
than the source code.
And so this sort of wraps up our talk.
Also we have, like, a couple of takeaways here.
And we see that going towards having some type of standard around S-form formats is
being necessary, but not fully sufficient.
Based on the previous slides, we need a bit more context so that we can have better actionable
insights.
One way of doing that could be, for example, including cold graph information.
As a consumer of S-form, it is very difficult to verify the correctness of them.
Because as Henry was showing earlier, if you are using different tools and we are getting
different results, which one is the correct one?
And how could we even validate that they are correct in what they are doing?
And the last point that is something that both me and Henry think is extremely important
is that we need to create some form of independent S-form benchmark where, like, different S-form
generators or others could evaluate on, like, how accurate the generated S-form are against
a set of vetted or, I mean, manually validated projects in general.
This concludes our talk.
We are happy to take questions.
Yeah.
It shows Java and that is an ecosystem.
You can probably take it.
The question is how would we do this cold graph analysis for C languages?
And that, of course, is a very different game and I don't think there is an easy, it will
just not be possible, to be honest.
So because with all the cold graph generator, you don't agree?
I don't agree.
We need to do this for safety.
Building a cold graph for C code is more difficult than it is for languages like Java and Python.
And I think the, so maybe the amount of information that is contained in such cold graphs, this
is a more accurate description, is less or, let's say, less helpful for taking any actions
or it's less actionable.
What we were using this originally for those cold graphs where it's for reachability of
vulnerable methods.
So the idea was, okay, there is method ABC affected by log4j.
Is this really cold built from, in my application context?
But this required kind of, you could map the source code where the vulnerable function
is identified to what is in the byte code where this identifier is basically the same.
So the cold graph generated from byte code could be used for this purpose.
And I don't think this is possible in at least this application in C.
We have another time.